Sean Santiago
CISC 3300 SP25 
Homework 2 


1. What do the id and class attributes do? How are they alike and different? 
The id attribute specifies a unique id of an html element. The class attribute specifies a class for an html element. They are different in that multiple elements can have the same class, but only one element should have an id. They are alike in that they are both used to point to specific element/s in a style sheet for the sake of being manipulated


2. What are the parts of a CSS rule? 
The two parts of the CSS rule are the selector and the declaration and they control how a specific element is displayed. The selector picks out the elements for styling and the declaration specifies said styling options.


3. Explain how CSS rules cascade. 
The rule that takes the most precedence no matter what is the one that has the important keyboard. The selector that has the higher specificity will have its style applied. However if both have the same specificity, then the CSS rule that is applied last will win. Next, a child element will also naturally inherit the properties and style from the parent element.


4. Contrast display: block, inline, inline-block. 
Display block puts an element as a block element which starts on a new line and take up the whole width of that line (ex: <p>)
Display inline puts an element as an in-line element and the height and width properties do not have any effect. (ex: <span>)
Display inline-block puts an element as an inline-level block container, meaning it is basically displayed as an inline element but you can apply height and width properties to it.


5. What are border, padding, and margin? 
Border: The border property separates the edge of one box from another box.
Padding: The internal space between the border of a box and the content within it.
Margin: They are outside of the edge of the border and they create gaps between the borders of neighboring boxes.


6. Let’s improve our fake business webpage from the first homework: 
a. Make a full width header div with a centered row of links and a border. The links can route to ‘#’. Give the header a background color and the links a foreground color. 
b. Create a logo with a fancy font from google fonts and some color. And set a google font for the text of the rest of your webpage. 
c. Every item on the page should have adequate margin/padding. 
d. Try to think about the usability principles we have discussed in class; try to make the design choices increase the usability of the page.